Hello.
Hi, everybody.
Thanks for hanging out
to the end of the day.
We got some good stuff to show you.
I don't think the session is
going to go the entire length,
but we got some great demos,
so it'll be worth your time.
So we're here talking about
Leopard at the conference,
which is the latest in our
series of OS X releases.
If you've been with us
through the whole journey,
it's been quite an amazing one.
And I'm going to talk a little bit about
some of the things we've done through
the journey of Mac OS X since 10.0.
And I'm going to talk about it from
a standpoint of an innovation cycle,
where we build technologies into the OS,
and the applications take advantage of
those technologies and build products.
And then we see how the
products worked out,
we get some feedback,
we think of new ideas
how to make that easier,
and build more technology back in the OS.
And we've been doing that for the
five years that OS X has been around.
And I think it's done really well.
So let's do a little bit of
a history review right now.
So on the technology front,
when OS X 1.0 came out, or 10.0 came out,
there was a bunch of things we knew
we had to do in the operating system,
obviously,
to modernize ourselves from the
old classic Mac OS code base.
So first was 2D graphics.
The 2D graphics,
the engine of the user interface,
we upgraded with PDF and
PostScript compatible imaging model.
We used a windowing system that
had a compositing engine built
into it for nice alpha anti-aliased
windows with drop shadows.
We used QuickTime, obviously,
for our media strategy.
QuickTime, very popular and been
around for a long time,
tried and true, and we put that right
into Mac OS X as well.
For 3D graphics,
the choice was pretty obvious, OpenGL.
We built that in.
For audio,
we knew we had to do some work.
Sound Manager was... Not really going to
cut it in our modern operating system.
So we moved to Core Audio,
really low latency audio solution for
a full preemptive operating system.
Really a great innovation there.
And at the time, digital photography was
starting to come out.
So we built in support in OS X.0,
just plug and play with a lot
of the USB cameras that were
coming online at the time.
Then let's look at what we did.
We added in Jaguar.
Jaguar, we added Quartz Extreme,
which was taking that 2D windowing
system with all the alpha channel and
compositing and moving all of that
up to the GPU to accelerate it to
get a really fluid windowing system.
We also upgraded QuickTime at that
point to track the standards that
were going on in the media industry.
That was MPEG-4,
a critical standard there,
especially for audio, the AAC standard,
which was a really great
investment for us with QuickTime 6.
Then in Panther OS 10.3,
a couple of more things we added.
We added WebKit,
working with the open source
community to build a really great
browsing engine right into Mac OS X.
GPUs were coming on the scene with
programmability at this point,
and so we built in all the
programmable APIs into OpenGL so you
could access GPU programmability.
This was a pretty significant
thing in the evolution of GPUs.
And as you know, last release in Tiger,
we released a bunch of new stuff as well.
On the QuickTime front,
we upgraded the codecs once
again following our standard
strategy to go with H.264.
This has been a great codec for us,
a real important foundation technology.
We added camera RAW support
into the OS for all the digital
still cameras out there.
Very complicated to
decode the sensor data,
and we built all that into the OS.
You can just open RAW images and preview.
That's great.
And then Core Image,
an image processing framework
built to survive the test of time
in terms of revolutionary GPU and
CPU parallel architectures,
where you can express algorithms
that you don't have to recode them
every time a processor changes.
And of course, Quartz Composer,
really a fun tool that we added
to build procedural animations
and data-driven animations without
having to write a line of code.
And so that's what kind of we've
been up to at the technology front.
And let's kind of rewind the clock
and go back through some of the
products that came out of that.
First off, the Aqua user interface.
Aqua user interface,
incredible in the day to look at those
edges of those anti-aliased windows,
the dock, how it's smoothly animated,
you know,
with no aliasing when it's scaled.
I mean,
really upgraded the user experience
and just the fit and finish
of a desktop operating system.
A huge amount.
Of course, we weren't accelerating
anything at that point,
but we took the hit because we know we
wanted a compositing windowing system,
and that was a great investment.
The other thing that came
along about that time,
2002, was iPhoto.
Again, taking advantage of the digital
camera support in the OS,
obviously taking advantage
of QuickTime and all of
our 2D graphics APIs.
In 2003, the Music Store came online,
and here's where the investment in
AAC and some modern audio coding
technology really helped out.
Of course, Core Audio playing a role
as well as QuickTime.
And then Keynote.
Keynote was a real significant
application for me.
I think we talked about it at
one of the WWDCs a few years ago,
because it really, of the day,
took advantage of a lot of
the technology we built in.
Gorgeous 2D graphics and typography,
video on a texture
complete with transparency,
OpenGL, when you go full screen
and do a presentation,
it's taking advantage
of the graphics card.
All of the technology is built
together to make a really
compelling presentation application.
That I still think has yet to be beaten.
I think Keynote's a
really great application.
Safari.
Again, reinvigorating the web
browser market a little bit.
After a hiatus,
Safari and the other open source
browsing engines really came online
and really kind of drove browsing
experiences to the next level.
And I always remember as a graphics
guy when I first saw Safari rendering
with nice anti-aliased fonts and
everything looking really cool.
It's like, yeah, you never know.
I never knew the web could look so good.
And really,
I think Safari is a great application
that shows off a lot of the graphics
technology in the OS as well.
Then Expose.
Expose was interesting because it was
an interplay between the technology
and the user experience guys.
Once they realized with Quartz
Extreme that we could move around
all the windows in real time and
everything was getting accelerated,
they said, well, hey,
we can apply that to the problem
of window management and make it
a lot easier for users to manage.
Windows on their screen.
And so we get Expose,
which was a really great innovation.
Again, leveraging OpenGL and
the power of the GPU.
Apple came out with Motion,
an application that kind of redefined how
motion graphics applications are done.
Very visual, lots of feedback,
real-time feedback.
Really great application and leveraging a
lot of the technology built into the OS.
Then, of course,
I think the most important
thing is that we have a lot
of the technology that we use.
iChat U plus 3 has that great
user interface done with
OpenGL with the reflections,
uses the greatest codec technology,
H.264, core audio,
all of those things put together to
make a compelling user experience.
Dashboard, again,
once you realize you can
put an information overlay
over an entire display,
and you can use WebKit to do that,
you have a great way to manage
data as an overlay on your display.
Next up was Aperture, again,
taking advantage of the
digital photography.
The Quartz Extreme compositing
windowing system for some of their
heads-up user interfaces and their
animated full-screen displays.
Taking advantage of
Bra built into the platform,
taking advantage of Core Image for
the processing pipeline.
Kind of pushing the limits in how
to deal with digital photography and
really some breakthrough things there.
Then again,
back to iTunes for the Video Store.
The Video Store was launched in 2005,
takes advantage of H.264 and
QuickTime to be able to sell videos
on the web that are reasonable size
to download and pretty good quality.
Photo Booth.
Photo Booth was a great
application to kind of,
I think it happened in the
span of about three weeks.
You know, we were going to ship these
iMacs with the cameras in them,
and someone said, well,
unless you've got a
buddy to conference with,
there's really nothing when a consumer
opens it that they would have.
And so there was this
bomb run effort to see,
well, what can we do that's sort of fun?
And Photo Booth came out of that.
And the reason we could
do that so quickly,
obviously,
was technology like Quartz Composer
that we built into the OS to be
able to just put that application
together relatively quickly.
And it's been phenomenally popular.
I mean, even I myself find myself sitting
in front of Photo Booth just
playing with the distortions.
Yeah, you can waste a lot of time.
And finally, Front Row.
Front Row, you see us getting into more
of the 10-foot user interfaces,
using the same plumbing that's in
the OS in terms of Quartz Extreme,
OpenGL, Quartz Composer,
to build a very engaging user interface.
But it hasn't only been us taking
advantage of all of these technologies.
You guys, as well,
have been doing some amazing
applications on top of all this stuff.
And I'd just like to
acknowledge a few of them.
OmniGraffle in 2001.
I think this is a great application
for boxes and lines editing.
You're always making diagrams,
and this is always the
easiest way to do it,
I find.
Great tool.
Scott mentioned ToySight,
which is another really interesting
game that takes advantage of the camera,
and you can interact with the camera,
which is really fun.
Big Bang Chess.
I think this app takes advantage of
practically everything in the platform,
including chat and all
the graphics stuff.
Kind of a really interesting...
Never knew chess could be so cool.
Comic Life.
A great application for creating
little comic book setups
with your personal photos,
adding effects to them.
Takes advantage of a
lot of the technology,
even core image,
to do some image processing.
That's a pretty interesting app.
And of course, Delicious Library.
Gorgeous user interface.
All your stuff kind of rendered
on your virtual bookshelf.
A very cool app.
So that's kind of the innovation
cycle where... We see kind of all of
us and all of you evolving together
as the technology landscape changes,
and our users give us feedback,
and we come up with new ideas.
We're all able to kind of feed on each
other and create a great ecosystem,
and that's one of the
great things about the Mac.
And so my analogy for this is
it's kind of like a jazz combo,
you know, in the Smokey Nightclub,
and everyone's riffing off each other,
and we get GPU programmability here.
Oh, let's go do motion,
or let's go do core image,
or something like that.
So it's a really pretty exciting,
innovative way to go.
Now, if you compare that with what
might be going on up north... .
This year we can,
because this is not out yet.
I played trumpet in
high school and college,
and C# was a bear.
You could not improvise
in C# to save anything.
But seriously...
I think there is a point here.
It's in fun, of course,
but I think being a little more fluid
and a little more interactive and a
little more able to incorporate feedback.
If you want to pick up an
instrument and play it,
if you want to write
something in Ruby or Perl,
if it's not managed code, oh no.
It's a lot more fluid technology
landscape out there than some of
these grand architectures acknowledge.
I think that that's kind of an
interesting point to think about.
I hope you found that amusing.
Okay, on to the serious stuff.
We're going to talk about all the media
technologies we have in Leopard for you,
our audio, 2D, 3D imaging,
and video technologies.
Let's start with audio,
what's new in audio in Leopard.
We've got the audio QAPIs,
which is a new API for feeding
compressed data into the system.
We've got a panner audio unit,
which is kind of the guts of
our OpenAL implementation.
It's 3D positional audio,
available as an audio unit.
We have some great interaction
between QuickTime and Core Audio now,
where you can insert an audio unit into
the QuickTime audio playback pathway.
This is really interesting.
You can imagine combining that
with the panner audio unit,
and if you're playing video on
a texture and flying it around,
you could have it actually position its
sound source where you want it to be.
There's a new API, a new framework called
Hardware Media Control,
which is about controlling devices
like big instruments or mixing boards,
and you can actually control
surfaces in a really straightforward,
easy way.
And of course, there's OpenAL,
keeping up with the standard there,
OpenAL 1.1, and some extensions as well
that we're adding onto that to
leverage some of the audio units.
One thing I thought I'd
point out on Core Audio is
this application called Rax.
It was one of the
Design Award entries this year.
Really interesting application.
It's basically built for performance.
And so this is your setup mode.
Where you'd kind of set
up all your instruments,
some of which you're probably
going to play with a MIDI keyboard,
some of which might be
played by the computer.
You can set up your
playlists and all of that.
They've even skinned our audio
units with some really nice UI.
This is all very
interactive and animated.
This is the Matrix Reverb
UI that they've put together,
which is just our standard audio unit.
And then when you go live,
you press the big go on
stage button up there.
And it flips over and you get a
performance-oriented user interfaces
where if you're playing and standing
back a little bit from the computer,
you get exactly what you need.
You get your output levels, any notes,
the audio load on the system,
your set list.
And in the middle,
they have a Quartz Composer
visualizer that you can plug
in to play on a second monitor.
And they have a nice way to package
up Quartz compositions and feed them
MIDI data or sound data in order
to get a visualization of React.
But anyway, kind of a vertical app,
but I thought real interesting in
terms of how it's leveraged all of the
technology and done some interesting
things with user interface as well.
A bunch of audio sessions.
Find your favorite one quick before
I click the slide and check them out.
OK, that's audio.
Let's talk about 2D graphics.
Quartz 2D and PDF, what's new there?
The Quartz GL acceleration layer,
we've been working on
this for a few years,
and it is in Leopard, and it is opt-in,
so you turn it on if it
helps your performance.
We found that the performance
profile of 2D graphics,
it depends heavily on
the application workload.
In some cases,
accelerate it with the GPU is not.
In some cases, it is.
So you can opt into that.
We have a 16-bit per
component rendering pipeline,
which is plumbed all the way through
ColorSync for image processing as well.
We had a floating point rendering
pipeline that we had in Tiger,
and this adds an intermediate
one in case floating point is too
much data for your application,
so that's great.
We've enhanced the print dialogs and
upgraded our printer engine to CUPS 1.2.
That brings along IPv6 and
some other enhancements there.
And previews getting an overhaul
with an updated user interface,
some better searching,
and improved image editing.
And I will show you some of that.
In a minute.
But I have to give the obligatory
plug for the Quartz book.
How many of you guys have this book?
Yes, great book.
Written by people at Apple,
and incredibly well written
and very comprehensive.
It kind of reminds me of the
red book in the PostScript days.
If you're programming Quartz,
you need this book.
[Transcript missing]
So I'm going to launch
the new interface builder,
create a Cocoa windowed application.
Make my menu-- make my window big.
I'm going to drag out the
PDF document view here.
becomes pre-populated with a copy
of the PDF kit programming guide,
conveniently enough.
So while you're coding,
you can-- I'm going to bring
out-- this is the thumbnail view
that I said was the new view.
And I'm just trying to position him here.
Let me select the document view
again and bring up the inspector.
And the inspector has a bunch of
features for PDF that are PDF specific.
You can have it auto scale.
You can have it go two up.
These are available as methods as well,
if you want to call them.
But we have them in the
configuration UI here as well.
So let's leave it single page
continuous with auto scaling on.
And then I'm going to go to the start
This is the thumbnail view which
I need to make stretch like that.
And now I have to connect the two up.
So I'm going to hold down
Control and do the new connection
inspector to make the PDF view be
that outlet of the thumbnail view.
Now I'm going to select both and
layout and embed them in a split view.
I'm going to adjust
my split view springs.
And if you cross your fingers,
Let's simulate the interface here.
So again,
it loads up by default with the PDF view,
with the PDF document.
And hey, I got the springs right.
So it's all sizing correctly.
And this can be multi-column.
So that's a new feature we're adding.
So that's pretty cool.
And this is all, you know, live.
Obviously, it's taking events and,
you know, you can select and do all
that sort of stuff built into
the document view itself.
The other thing you can do
with the thumbnail view is we
allow you to reorder pages.
So you can pick up a page,
move it to the beginning.
Pick up a page, move it to the end.
I should be able to delete a blank page,
but I didn't put an edit menu in there.
But that would be pretty easy as well.
You can also drag in
images from the desktop,
and it'll just make a page and
insert it right in there for you.
So that's pretty straightforward to do.
Obviously, some of these features
you may see in preview.
But it's all available to you in PDF kit.
So that's the PDF kit demo.
I'll just quit Interface Builder
and go back to the slides.
Thanks.
So the other thing I wanted to
talk to you in the 2D graphics
realm is Core Animation.
A lot of the demos you saw of
Core Animation were kind of 3D,
but it's really a 2D technology.
It has enough 3D to do 3D,
convincing 3D scenes with depth
queuing and Z opacity sorting,
but it's really a layering
engine at its heart.
It allows us to create
high production value,
user experiences,
smooth transitions between state.
I talked about the implicit
animations earlier.
Layers are really the building block.
So it's a fast animating layering engine.
[Transcript missing]
You can have a sublayers entry, again,
very NSView-like.
Sublayers are the children of the layer.
You can have border,
which can be rounded, of course.
Then you can apply a filter
to the contents of the layer.
You can apply a shadow to a layer.
In this case,
it's red for illustration purposes.
You can then fade the layers.
Every layer has an opacity.
You can composite the layer into a
background through any Core Image filter
that takes two in and one out.
Then you can apply a mask to that.
Actually what LayerKit does,
every frame of every animation,
is transfer everything
into the rendering engine.
The rendering engine builds
a Core Image graph for it,
every frame,
and compiles it to the GPU and draws it.
It's all built on top of Core Image,
and that's why you see Core Image effects
available as properties along the way.
There's the 2D graphics sessions.
Take note or look at your schedule guide.
Let's talk about 3D.
So 3D graphics, OpenGL, obviously,
you know, our foundation for 3D graphics.
We talked about the
multi-threaded engine before.
We're upgrading to OpenGL 2.1,
which was just announced
to Graph last week.
We pick up things from 2.0 as well,
like non-power of two textures.
There's some shading language extensions.
We're also including
support for OpenGL ES,
which is an embedded version of OpenGL,
which has some simplifications, actually,
over the OpenGL API.
There's a lot of debate in the
OpenGL community as to whether a
more simplified API like OpenGL ES,
which is actually more in line
with what the hardware does,
is kind of the way to go moving forward.
So we thought it was interesting
to start looking at ES.
And ES and GL are coming together anyway
in a new standards group called Kronos.
So I don't know if you follow OpenGL.
But all of this sort of makes
sense and where OpenGL is going.
And 64-bit is kind of implicit in a lot
of the frameworks we're talking about.
But I thought I would mention
it here in OpenGL in particular
because I think a lot of scientific
visualization applications
really want to move to 64-bit.
And so we're there with full OpenGL.
We have some improved software fallbacks
and some improvements to our tools,
including live shader editing
in the OpenGL profiler.
Now, OpenGL has been around for a while.
And it started out in the days of CAD.
Maybe not quite the IBM PC,
but I thought it was
a funny image anyway.
And, you know, it's really gone from,
you know, CAD, wireframe,
simple grow shading, pretty sophisticated
shading in recent years,
shading in materials.
And now it's starting to move
beyond that into physics,
particle systems,
people doing particle systems on GPUs,
people simulating natural phenomenon
GPU for smoke and fire and rain.
And so, you know,
with these new graphics processors,
really, you know, you think of the power
that's inside of that GPU,
able to do amazing things.
And so what we wanted to do here
was show you a technology demo.
I'm going to invite
Geoff Stahl up to the stage.
The guys at ATI have put together.
An amazing demo.
They've showed it a few times.
We're going to show it here
running on a Mac called Toy Shop.
And Geoff's going to
talk to you about that.
Thanks, Peter.
What I want to show you today is
a technology demo that ATI has put
together that really shows the power
of the GPU and what you can do to
make a truly cinematic experience.
In this case,
it's a toy shop on a rainy night.
Can we go to the demo, please?
So the demo starts off on the rooftop
of the toy shop and what one can
immediately notice is the rain effects.
Integrated into the scene,
reacting with the objects in the scene.
We see the puddle on the rooftop and
we can see that there are ripples
created by the rain particles falling.
As we pan across we see the top of
the edge of the roof here and we see
puddles created with animated textures,
or splashes created
with animated textures.
We come down the edge of the simulation
and we can see the falling particles.
Again, a physics simulation
being run on the GPU here.
What I'm going to do is I'm going
to go interactive for a moment
and I'll hop down to one of the
main areas of the simulation,
which is the toy shop window.
What we see here is a water effect,
the water meandering
down the toy shop window.
And one might think this was done
offline and passed to the GPU.
In fact, this entire physics
simulation using velocity,
surface tension,
and mass of the droplets was all run
on the GPU as a fragment shader and
affects all the geometry behind it.
It's very convincing effects.
Really brilliant.
It brings the user into the scene.
Let's move on and look at another
very interesting section of the demo.
In this case, it's this sidewalk.
The sidewalk is made of
cobblestones and the cobblestones,
as you know,
self-occlude each other and react
dynamically to the light in the scene.
One might think, wow,
there's a lot of geometry there.
That's really hard to do.
In this case,
there's very little geometry.
In reality, it's just a few polygons.
A parallax occlusion mapping
technique was used here to
create the dynamic lighting,
the self-occlusion, the soft shadows,
and really lends itself to the scene.
It's a very convincing simulation of
cobblestones with very little geometry
running almost everything through
GLSL as a fragment shader on the GPU.
Very convincing.
Let's look at what really
the scene is composed of.
Over 500,000 polygons per frame,
400 shaders, 20,000 particle effects,
all run on the GPU.
We bring up the wireframe.
We can see, as we pull back,
the scope of both what is run in geometry
and what is on the fragment shaders.
The road areas, for example,
you can see are on fragment shaders.
Very convincing demo put together by ATI,
which shows the power
of OpenGL on the GPU.
What is interesting about this is
you don't need to use OpenGL in all
cases to get the power of the GPU.
We provide you with Core Animation.
We provide you with Core Image.
We provide you with Core Video,
all to get the power of the GPU.
Thanks very much,
and I'll hand it back to Peter.
Thanks a lot, Geoff.
We got a bunch of
sessions on 3D graphics.
In fact, we have some of the
engineers from ATI here.
We're going to talk about some
of the techniques in that demo.
It's actually pretty interesting stuff,
if you can make that one.
That's going to be in the
shading language talk.
So next up in the 3D
area is Quartz Composer.
Quartz Composer, as you probably know,
has been used in a bunch of
recent products that we've done.
There's the RSS screensaver
back in Tiger,
which was very cool.
There's Photo Booth.
You saw it this morning in iChat.
The iMovie team actually uses
Quartz Composer for some of
their effects and themes.
And you guys have been busy
with Quartz Composer as well.
We looked at the graphics
entries in the design awards,
and about a third of them
used Quartz Composer.
So that's great to see you
guys having fun with that.
Quartz Composer in Leopard is going
to have a bunch of new features.
The number one requested
feature is custom patches.
There's a custom patches API in Leopard.
Yeah, for all you custom patch guys here,
you don't have to download the
skanky SDK off the web anymore.
There's a repository of compositions,
so if you want to do something like
Photo Booth and allow the user to
select from a bunch of compositions,
you can do that with
appropriate filtering in terms
of what kind of composition
is right for your application.
There's a WebKit plugin that runs
inside of Dashboard and Safari in
order to create Dashboard widgets that
might want to use Quartz Composer.
There's animated desktops features,
so you can set your desktop to a
Quartz composition if you want.
There's a bunch of new examples,
new developer examples
on the developer tools.
I'm going to give you a demo of
the number one requested feature,
which is custom patches.
So we wrote a couple of custom patches
to show you in the mad dash of the
last two weeks before the conference.
The first one is we found an
interesting open source project
out there called Ogre 3D.
It's a basic 3D engine kind of
built as what you might use as
a rendering component of a game.
It's pretty interesting
technology and pretty portable.
What we thought we'd do is wrap
it in Quartz Composer plugin.
So I'm going to bring in a couple of
components here to my composition.
Let me resize my window a little bit.
Then I'm going to bring
in this composition,
which is a ninja.
The ninja character is
like the Hello World you
get when you compile Ogre.
It's like one of their
standard little guys you get.
Not incredibly detailed model,
but there he is.
And I'm going to bring in an animator.
The interesting thing about the way
Ogre works is-- and the way we chose
to kind of expose it in this custom
patch-- is it actually carries all
the animation information from it.
So you could create the
model in an animation tool,
and then have a bunch of animation
channels you can pipe data into.
And you can blend the animations
in a pretty natural way.
So I can make the Ogre do stuff.
So let's do that.
I think I go to first
animation position here.
And so there's my
animation timer running.
I don't have him doing anything yet,
but I'm going to have him--
he's got like a basic walk.
He's got a stealthy walk.
Stealth.
He's got a spin.
And I could blend these together,
but we didn't really have
time to put together a super
complicated demo of this.
But the one thing we did do is we said,
well, if he's going to jump,
we can make him jump,
and we can bring in the QC text logo
and set up the rotation of that.
So hopefully, if the timing's right,
we'll have him jump over
the Quartz Composer logo.
So brilliant.
I won't tell you what happened
in some debug versions of this.
It wasn't pretty.
Okay, next demo.
So we wrote another patch.
We said, "Well,
that's pretty good to be able to do 3D."
[Transcript missing]
Which we actually have hooked up to
an OpenAL custom patch to pan left,
right as I go, so.
So that's pretty fun.
The guys at Omni
hopefully will forgive me,
but it's almost as useless as OmniDazzle.
There you go.
No, I love those guys,
so hopefully that won't be good.
So the Quartz Composer sessions,
there's a bunch that will be given,
so check those out.
You'll want to see that.
So the 3D sessions,
3D graphics section I've covered.
Now we're going to do the imaging
section of the talk and talk about
all the technology we have for
imaging in the operating system.
So Core Image.
We talked about Core Image a
little bit earlier.
New in Leopard is the raw processing
capability that we're exposing
through Core Image filters.
We also have automatic user
interface generation for filters,
so you don't have to paw around in the
P lists and create them from scratch.
We have CI filter generator,
which is sort of a macro facility where
you can take a tree of filters and
make them look like one macro filter.
We have improved scalability,
able to go up to thousands
of filters in a filter chain.
There is a debugging performance tool,
which is really helpful for figuring
out Core Image performance bottlenecks.
And on the image units front,
we've allowed you to have custom
user interface in your image units.
And there's a validator tool
and some more documentation for
creating image units on Core Image.
The next thing to do with imaging is a
new technology this year called ImageKit.
ImageKit, you can think of what we
did with PDFKit and Preview.
ImageKit's doing the same thing to
kind of the imaging side of Preview.
So some basic classes,
high-level user interface
classes for dealing with images.
Basic viewing, basic editing,
basic browsing.
And it's all powered by Core Image under
the hood and Core Animation.
So let me give you a
quick demo of ImageKit.
ImageKit.
So we wrote a sample application
to try to show off as many classes
in one application as possible.
So when I launch the app,
I get what we call the
image browser view.
This is an object you can use to have
users select from a bunch of images.
We've got about 5,000
images in this folder.
You can see I can scroll through.
It's lazy in terms of how
it brings the images in.
It's got a scaling control as well.
But kind of a nice object.
You just point it at a folder,
and it does the rest.
Let me pick a picture here
and bring up another class.
This is called the image view class.
So this is your basic
image viewer editor.
It has zoom controls with animation,
fit to size, actual size,
those sorts of things.
It has a crop tool with
kind of a heads up display.
You can actually crop.
You'll see it kind of smoothly
animates to the new state.
Again, that's core animation behind
the-- under the covers.
That's the analogy I'm looking for.
OK, it's got a rotation tool, again,
with a heads-up user interface.
That works for rotation.
And we have Image Edit.
This is a little bit of a upgrade
in the user interface from
what was in preview in Tiger,
kind of taking some of the
transparent user interface
[Transcript missing]
I can, as Scott mentioned earlier,
the image, the picture taker panel,
which we also integrated into here.
There we are.
There I am, and I'm black and white
because I put that filter on.
And to show one more class,
if I go Save As,
there's an accessory view that's
built in that you can just throw
into the Save panel if you want
to support all the image types,
so you don't have to do that anymore.
Thank you.
And to show one more class,
if I go Save As,
there's an accessory view that's
built in that you can just throw
into the Save panel if you want
to support all the image types,
so you don't have to do that anymore.
Thank you.
I see it doing its thing there.
Anyway, so that's -- ImageKit.
So here is a bunch of sessions
to go check out imaging,
image kit, Core Image.
And that's it for imaging.
Let's move on and talk about QuickTime.
QuickTime is our foundation video
technology in the operating system.
It's been around for a while,
and there's been over 1 billion
downloads of QuickTime in its history.
And it's shipped every
year on 4,000 titles,
including educational titles
like the first grade app here,
or the Italian language thing,
or even the Sims.
And what's new for QuickTime in Leopard?
Well,
if you ask people what is QuickTime,
you get a lot of different answers.
And so I'm kind of divide
this into the APIs,
the implementation,
looking at the file format, and last,
looking at the web plugin.
From the QuickTime API standpoint,
you heard this morning that QtKit is
really the path to the future.
It's the only way to access
QuickTime from a 64-bit application.
And it's where we're investing
the energy to do these new capture
APIs we call the Qt Capture APIs.
And also,
if you're in 64-bit and you need
to do graphic importer-like things,
you can do those using ImageIO.
ImageIO is full 64-bit,
so I wanted to point that out.
The QtKit Capture API,
Scott talked about these a little bit,
support for captures from devices,
both USB and FireWire.
And it supports simultaneous capture
from multiple devices and record
output to multiple devices as well.
So that's pretty cool.
And it also has a bridge to the
sequence grabber components as well.
If you need to access one of those,
you can still use the QtKit Capture
APIs and get it at those devices.
The QtKit Capture APIs are
not supported in 64-bit.
There's a lot of quick
draw dependency in there,
as you might imagine.
It'll be continued to
be supported in 32-bit.
Obviously,
we're not going to break anyone,
but we do encourage you to
upgrade to the new ones.
So visual context instead of G worlds,
using the sound media audio context,
using compression sessions.
So adopt the modern
CAPIs wherever you see them.
And the QuickTime implementation,
under the hood,
we're doing a lot of work to
revamp the low-level engine.
Obviously,
there's a lot of quick draw in there.
We need to remove that.
We're building some 64-bit clean,
parallelizable substructure
underneath QuickTime.
And to really clean up the model view
controller separation in QuickTime,
a lot of times Codex would
try to put up user interface,
and we're trying to
make that a lot cleaner.
The old engine we're
going to keep around,
obviously, because we're not going to
break content or applications,
but we're going to surface
more and more new functionality
based on this new plumbing.
In fact, the Capture API we're talking
about in QtKit is built on
some new low-level plumbing.
So I just wanted to let you guys know
we are investing a lot in the low-level
infrastructure of QuickTime and
moving it forward pretty aggressively
because it's critical to Apple.
On the format battle,
there's been some interesting
things going on with 264.
It's really exploded even since last
year in terms of industry momentum.
Obviously, we've got the Blu-ray disc
and HD DVD at the high-end,
high-bitrate professional HD.
We've got things like iChat
U Plus 3 that we use very
effectively to do low-latency,
low-bandwidth conferencing,
all the way down to the video iPod,
which we introduced last fall with
264 as the codec that we use it.
And the great thing about standards is,
you know, you can find people who will
sell you chips that do 264.
And so it's really a great thing.
And there's a whole ecosystem
of 264 out there now,
and it's a really great codec.
What are we doing new with 264?
We're continue to improve
our encoder performance,
and we're going to make
that even better in Leopard.
So keep your eyes peeled on that.
We're also going to introduce
264 with Alpha as a possibility.
It is an optional part of the spec,
but we think it's important,
and we're going to implement that
into the QuickTime infrastructure.
Why do you care about alpha video?
Well, alpha, I mean,
just like with images,
not all video is rectangular.
If it's meant to be a sprite
or a matted piece of content,
you want to get the video
out of the box sometimes.
I mean, what would, you know,
Keynote or any application like
that be without alpha images?
Well, it's the same thing in broadcast
production and things like that.
You're constantly dealing with
layers of things that have alpha.
Now, QuickTime,
it's no secret to the broadcast
production folks that QuickTime's had
the plumbing for this for a while.
In fact, you know,
you can buy CDs full of
PNGs or animation codec,
little After Effects rendered out
things that you can bring into a
design and kind of use as a layer.
The problem with these are the files are
huge because these are lossless codecs.
And so it's hard to, you know,
hard to actually deliver in that format.
So with 264 with alpha,
there's a way to deliver alpha.
And so we're going to be doing some alpha
video where you can make the appropriate
tradeoff depending upon your delivery
vehicle between quality and size.
And so we think that's going
to be really interesting.
So let me show you some alpha video.
I'm going to launch a copy of Keynote.
And as I said,
QuickTime has had the infrastructure,
as has Keynote,
to support alpha video for a while.
So here is a animated lower third,
something you might use
in broadcast design.
The PNG movie is 133 megabytes,
and the alpha 264 movie is 2 megabytes.
And just to see,
you can put it over whatever
background you want.
And then, of course,
you can buy CDs full of obligatory
dancing baloney and do whatever you want.
This one weighs in at 250 megabytes,
and the Alpha 264 is
about a tenth the size,
less than a tenth at 20.
And, you know,
these are ready to be composited over,
you know, probably rendered in a 3D
program as a little motion clip.
Or you can buy pre-matted footage.
I know the actor's a
little creepy in this one,
but...
So, you know, pre-matted footage.
The PNG for this is about 140 megabytes.
264 with alpha,
take that down to two and a half,
and let's put them in Tahoe.
There we go.
Okay, so if you weren't convinced before,
you're convinced now.
Alpha Video.
So let's talk about QuickTime on the web.
QuickTime has been adopted by
a bunch of websites out there,
some of the biggest names on the web.
In fact,
we see about 25,000 referring requests
to our servers every day on QuickTime.
And the most important thing for us with
the web and QuickTime is the plugin.
It's the most critical
playback experience.
The majority of QuickTime is experienced
in the browser through the plugin.
Now,
the QuickTime plugins actually had a very
robust JavaScript interface for a while,
for a few releases now.
And so it's already sort
of Ajax and Web 2.0 ready,
even though we didn't know it at
the time that's what we were doing.
But you can actually do a lot
with the QuickTime plugin.
And there's a few sites
that take advantage of it,
but I think it is a little bit underused.
And we want to continue to invest in that
and really take it to the next level and
make QuickTime the plugin of choice for
adding video to Ajax-type applications.
So let me give you a demo of
some of our work in that area.
To demo any web content,
you must launch the web
author's tool of choice,
BBEdit.
I'm sorry I didn't get a chance
to make the fonts bigger for you,
but you've all seen HTML before.
So this is a typical web page you
might see out there on the web with
some QuickTime content in there.
The standard controller, you can scrub,
play.
Pretty basic.
I mean, the HTML, you can see it doesn't
even go half a page there.
So that's kind of cool.
But what about this JavaScript interface
you're talking about?
So if you want to skin a
QuickTime movie in HTML and JavaScript,
you can actually do that because
you can have full control over play,
pause, stop in there.
So we have this little animated
controller that I can actually
just use with the mouse here.
And this is just a CSS div with some
JavaScript and associated thing.
I think it actually uses
the Yahoo UI framework.
So that's pretty cool.
The one issue, though,
is that-- suppose I wanted to drag, oh,
the controller over the video.
Well, that doesn't work too good.
So what am I going to do about that?
So we looked into that,
and it turns out that
Safari is going to quit.
OK.
It's OK.
It'll come back.
We looked into that,
and it turns out that at the cost
of a little bit of performance,
we can actually render synchronously
with the browser and provide
a more seamless experience.
So here I am with the same controller,
except now compositing over the video.
If I get to a place where the
video is actually playing,
it might be more impressive.
There we go.
And this machine is able
to keep up just fine,
even though it's kind of rendering in
the damage repair loop of the browser
instead of rendering asynchronously
like a lot of video plugins do.
And the way you enable this in a
web page is you just add one line
of code to the rendering mode.
I think we call it transparent,
which just allows it to be a first-class
citizen in a CSS Z order layering system.
So that's pretty cool.
But once you can do that,
if you actually let some real
web designers look at it,
you might get something like this.
So this is a site using the technology
and the transparent QuickTime plugin.
The QuickTime is being
framed by some PNG images.
We have our transparent controller here,
which I can move around over the video.
I've got a few JavaScript rollovers that
are working just as you would expect,
as if it was just an image background.
Over here on the Superman logo,
you can see I'm using some of
that alpha 264 to have just a
nice little highlighting effect.
So that's just another embed tag
with a transparent movie there.
And then if I bring up
a little infographic,
you can see I've got kind of a star
field effect going underneath there,
another alpha layer,
alpha 264 layer on there.
And since it's just web content,
I can change the font size.
It's all just CSS and getting styled.
So that's pretty good that
it's all integrated like that.
So yes, feel free to applaud anytime.
And again, since it's just web content,
it can just be restyled with a print
style sheet to bring up if you wanted
to show something fancier like that.
That's all pretty cool.
So that's what I wanted to show
you as far as the web plugin goes.
So pretty cool stuff.
So what are we doing in Leopard?
We're adding transparent mode rendering,
and it's not just going
to work in Safari.
It's going to work cross-browser
and cross-platform.
So that's great.
In transparent mode,
we render synchronously with the browser,
so we're in its main paint loop.
Take a little bit of a performance hit,
as I said, but I think it enables enough
features that a web designer
will use it appropriately.
It allows video to be a first-class
citizen in a CSS design,
respecting Z order and opacity,
as you would expect.
And we're going to add some
enhancements to the JavaScript API.
We've got a number of requests for
things like better event triggers
out of movies and things like that,
so we're going to add that.
But I do have one more demo
for you before I wrap up,
which...
[Transcript missing]
Let me break apart those layers for
you and show you what's going on.
There's the topmost layer,
PNG image with JavaScript.
Second layer, our alpha 264 video.
Third layer, transparent controller.
It actually can still drag it, too.
Fourth layer is the little menu
bar that's just a bunch of CSS.
The next layer is the Superman call
out with more info on the movie,
an image, and a div.
We have our Starfield.
And we have the two pings,
or it might be one ping that kind of
frames the movie while it's playing.
We've got our poster frame,
which is the layer that's
there when you first show it,
and then it gets its opacity set
to zero in order to show the movie.
So he's there, and then finally the
movie in the background.
And so let's just-- so that's-- yeah,
go ahead.
Clap.
I'll just put them all
away for you like that.
How's that?
There we go.
So there's a bunch of
sessions on QuickTime.
They'll be going on throughout the week,
so check those out as well.
So that's what's new in QuickTime.
So I've talked to you about all of
the graphics and media technologies
in the OS and what's new in Leopard.
But of course, that's not all.
There's tons of sessions
on tons of stuff.
So go learn about all of it
and build it into your app.
So with Mac OS 10.5,
we really want you guys to start to
take advantage of some of our new
technologies like Core Animation,
ImageKit.
[Transcript missing]
and we're really looking forward
to see what kind of apps you
guys create at next year's WWDC.
So check out to see us
in the feedback forum,
visit us in the lab,
enjoy the leopard seed we gave you,
and we'll see you later.
Have a great show.
Thank you.